
# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi

# Gopher shell integration
if [ -f "/tmp/profile" ]; then
    source "/tmp/profile"
fi
